# The-Monte-Carlo-Method
This repository explores one of my personal favourites among the simulation methods. The application to which this is used in this repository is just an excuse for me to work with it ;)

Monte Carlo method is a class of computation algorithm which utilizes repeated random sampling to obtain results. It uses randomness itself to solve deterministic problems. Speaking of problems, gambling problem is quite prominent. What if i told you if you gamble for long enough, you might win? (jk, read this entire section to know why that is a bad idea)
The connection of Monte Carlo Method being associated with a gambler's choice of holiday destination is quite established by now. 

The law of large numbers proposed by Bernoulli suggests that the experimental outcome comes closer to the 'expected' outcome as more trials are recorded. For example, the probability of a head/tail during a fair coin flip is 0.5(priori probability). If this is tested, the average of initial 20-30 tests might not result in the probability of 0.5, but as the number of tests are increased, it converges to 0.5(posterior probability). 
Would you be able to guess this same theory could form the basics of NLP, ML, stock predictions, weather predictions and modern Language Models? 

Lets expand this thinking into dependant events, unlike coin flips. Lets take the example of the manhattan project. Just how much uranium is required for the 'gadget' to work? (Could we solve this problem like the coin flip problem XD) Thanks to a mathematician named Ulam, there was a better way. He simulated a setting for the behaviour of free neutrons using a markov chain. The neutron could be in three states: Neutron does nothing and keeps travelling, gets absorbed or can trigger fission releasing another free neutron, which again could bein these states. The transition probabilities of these events were unknown. Hence in the simulation, a random generation of probabilites was incorporated. Just like the coin flip average probabilites converged to 0.5, a similar pattern was observed in this simulation. They arrived at the probability when the chain reaction would sustain. Mind the words 'probability' and 'might'. There was always the probability of the chain reaction dying away, or NEVER dying away. (See why gambling for long enough was a bad idea?) This method was used for various applications, if started listing, would reach the word limit of readme. 

If you are new to probability thoery, this concept along with Markov chains is beautifully demonstrated in a video made by veritasium, check it out. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KZeIEiBrT_w

